Hi there.
Ohh, hi there. My name is Ben Sivan.
Oh, hi there.
Oh, oh, hi, everyone.
Oh, hi everyone. My name is Ben,
and this is a video series I want to do
to...
Without any specific agenda,
just to get some publicity.
Mhm.
Oh, hi there.
My name is Ben.
This is the first video in a series of
videos that I want to do.
Two.
Get my open source project out there.
I don't have any specific agenda for that.
I'm just...
to get the conversation going and if you
want to contribute in any way,
I would love to get contribution on that.
So I'll give just a little bit background
about myself. My name is Ben.
I am a data scientist and software
engineer.
I have a background in bioinformatics and
biotechnology.
The main thing that I'm interesting.
In terms of technology,
I'm very drawn to a simple,
composable atomic building blocks that
you can use.
For that,
I'm really drawn to the Lua programming
language.
As you would see in part of my project,
I'm using a specific dialect of Lua.
So,
I have a master's degree in biotechnology,
and...
My.
Research background is mainly in plant
science,
so I have done masters on genetic
engineering, so...
So everything from genetic editing.
Crop.
So everything from genetic editing of
plants, crop raiding,
and up to cellular agriculture,
meaning growing the cell.
Currently,
I'm working at a company that's produced
producing cocoa ingredients.
In the LAM.
Growing the actual cocoa cells.
From the seed in bioreactors to produce
the cocoa mass.
for chocolate production.
I'll give a brief overview of my projects
in mind.
I'm specifically interested in.
The space of knowledge management.
So,
the first project I would like to show is
an adoption of another very established
open source project, which is Fossil SCM.
Fossil is a version control and knowledge
management software that was created by
the...
Richard Hipp,
the creator of SQL Lite for the
development of SQL Lite,
so it uses it as the backbone of the
project. It has an SQL Lite database.
as the backbone of the software.
But it also, it all.
Many times it is called a GitHub in a box
because it holds a local.
because it has its own server that you
can deploy locally and open in the
browser with a user interface to interact
with the knowledge in the repository.
So, the idea of this project is to take...
the fossil project,
but not only for software management,
not only for source control management,
but more for general knowledge management.
And the key thing that I find that is the
hurdle with most knowledge management
software
Is the manual processing stage?
Everything, it is always a different task,
a separate task to manage the knowledge
and use it.
But it doesn't have to be like that.
The way our mind works,
when we're retrieving information from
memory or within a conversation,
we're already processing it within the
conversation and thinking of new thoughts.
Already within it,
so the way that I want to do it is to
have a persisting.
Knowledge management software.
Using large language models and general
natural language processing.
So, the idea is...
When you write notes and speak with the
model.
In the background,
it retrieves information.
Bubbling context based on.
The conversation that you're having with
the model.
And then this,
those notes are getting processed into
different tiered.
Into different tiers of level of
processing,
like the same way that you have the
settle custom model, settle custom model,
settle custom method.
So you have extremely raw notes,
the thing that was retrieved as is,
and then semi-processed notes,
connection of loose threads of
information coming together.
After that, you have...
Like more wiki notes, which are...
Connection off.
atomic ideas and with that you have
atomic nodes which are a single idea,
self-contained.
Play netball within itself.
So, the the knowledge.
Repository, the knowledge.
The Knowledge Bolt.
is being processed within the usage.
So as you use the knowledge more and more,
the vaults becoming more adaptive,
more smart, smarter.
More relevant.
The second project, on a similar note,
is the filament project.
So the filament project is...
I'm personally a fan of...
Non-fiction detection.
non-fiction detective shows.
So like true kind podcasts.
And the idea of the filming project is to
draw information from.
Open datasets.
Line.
from open data sets of unidentified human
remains and missing persons.
And then trying to connect those loose
threads.
into a coherent.
Into A coherent.
Into A coherent narrative that you can
gather together to explain.
Howdy!
Thanks, coming together.
This also uses many of the same
technologies,
like retrieval augmented generation
method, large language models.
general natural language processing to
score and rank different parts of the
information.
And this is all.
combined into a matching algorithm to try
and connect all the loose threads of
information.
Now, here,
as much as you have more information.
The results you will get would be better,
and since...
Open.
There aren't many.
enough open platforms of information.
Most of the information is locked in the
law enforcement databases.
So, this is where...
It would be a huge help to have
collaboration.
Another tool that I want to talk about is.
..
And I call it Brain X,
which is brain extension.
I started using.
Obsidian for knowledge management as my
notes vault. And they found it, yeah,
it's a cool project and awesome user
interface, very smooth.
I like the idea that you have everything
local and you have the flexibility to.
sort it out in any way that you would
like.
It doesn't give you a strict schema that
you need to adhere to.
With that,
and this is an external tool that I
needed to keep open and keep remembering
to get into and write the note within my
work, which is not my preferred workflow.
So the thing that I've done is...
to generate a command line interface
because I'm a terminal dweller.
I'm working within the terminal all day
long.
So, and this tool, it can be work.
can be connected into an obsidian vault
and work in tandem with it,
but doesn't have to. You can use it as is.
It also combines node with task
management. So you get both. And just,
I call it node where you are,
because I'm in the terminal side.
I take my notes in the term,
just the easiest for me.
And most of the time,
I'm not writing a very coherent,
long form notes.
Those are just one liners, reminders,
and things that I would like to
come back to later and remember the
context in which they were written.
So again,
I can use natural language processing and
large language models.
To process all of those,
this is coming back into the fossil
repository, and...
I'm using SQLite backend,
but also markdown and readable text files
in the vault.
Another project that I would like to talk
about is the Lua M.
Lua M is in modernized.
Minimum.
modernize and minimalize.
modernized and minimal syntax for Lua.
So it's a minimal and modernized dialect
of Lua.
The idea is that I removed some of the
features that Lua gives to have more.
To have.
Preferably a single way to do a thing,
but also to give it.
Keep it concise.
Keep it concise and purely.
To be concise and purely procedural,
so I removed.
Object-oriented features like meta tables.
Also, I'm using a...
Band equal.
to donate to notate on equality. So yeah,
you can see it in the dedicated program.
And also I have a few of my projects that
uses this language as the backbone.